# Revealing the Cosmic Dark Ages from lunar orbit with CosmoCube

The Cosmic Dark Ages are a crucial period in cosmic history, corresponding to redshift z ~ 30 - 250, before the formation of the first stars and galaxies. During this epoch the universe transitioned from a largely homogenous state to one rich in structure. However, the Dark Ages are currently unobserved. One of the only ways to probe this epoch is via the redshifted 21-cm signal from neutral hydrogen at frequencies below 50 MHz.  An observation of this information-rich signal will help researchers understand the expansion of the universe, structure formation, the nature of dark matter and dark matter-baryon interactions. However the ionosphere and human-made radio signals prevent observations from Earth at these frequencies. CosmoCube is a UK-led mission to observe the 21-cm signal between 5 and 100 MHz (z ~ 13-285) from Lunar orbit. The proposed microsatellite is being developed as a candidate ESA mini-F mission, having recently received positive feedback on an expression of interest submission, and has previously been funded by UKSA under the bilateral program. Drawing on experience from the ground-based REACH experiment, CosmoCube brings together expertise in Bayesian inference, theoretical modelling, and instrumentation design from UK and international partners — including University of Cambridge, RAL, University of Portsmouth, SSTL, ASU, Embry Riddle, NASA JPL, and the University of Malta — to deliver a timely, cost-effective path to the first direct observations of the Dark Ages. In this talk, we will review the mission concept, recent progress on the thermal modelling of the instrument, spectrometer design and calibration pipeline as well as the roadmap to launch within the next few years