# Surrogate modelling of the REACH beam pattern for robust 21-cm signal extraction

The Radio Experiment for the Analysis of Cosmic Hydrogen (REACH) aims to observe the sky-averaged redshifted 21-cm signal from neutral hydrogen between 50 - 200 MHz which will help researchers understand the nature of the first luminous sources to form in the universe, the first X-ray binaries and black holes and the transition from neutral to ionized universe. However, the signal is buried beneath instrumental systematics that are 2 orders of magnitude brighter and foreground emission from our own and other galaxies which is around 5 orders of magnitude brighter. In order to confidently extract the 21-cm signal from our data the REACH collaboration has developed a detailed Bayesian forward model of our observations. In this talk I will discuss how we are building surrogate models for the beam pattern of the REACH dipole antenna. The beam pattern shapes how the typically smooth synchrotron emission from our own and other galaxies appears in our data and it is impacted by the physical dimensions of the antenna and the surrounding environment. Modelling this effect is crucial for a confident detection of the signal as it can mimic or hide the 21-cm signal. Currently the REACH inference pipeline assumes absolute knowledge of the instrument, however Cumner et al. (2024) demonstrated that inaccurate modelling of the physical dimensions of the antenna at the level of millimeters can prevent a detection of the 21-cm signal. Surrogate modelling of the beam pattern alongside the 21-cm signal and foregrounds offers a way to capture variations in the beam pattern over time due to changes in the environment and account for construction errors. However, simulating and emulating the beam pattern is non-trivial and the parameter space is high dimensional with thousands of pixels on the sky at each MHz between 50 and 200 MHz and up to 10 free parameters describing the geometry and environment. I will demonstrate how we can emulate the REACH beam pattern at the accuracy required to capture millimeter changes in the antenna's geometry and outline a path to pipeline integration.